# Motte_Archibald_Comparison_project

## Summary
This is a Jupyter Notebook Project in which I analyzed the differences between Tyler Motte and Josh Archibald - given the recent replacement of Archibald with Motte on the Tampa Bay Lightning after Archibald's contract termination - based on key statistics for 4th line Right Wingers; these statistics were: Pts/GP, Hits/GP, Blocks/GP & PIM's/GP.

## Analysis
In comparing Tyler Motte and Josh Archibald across the above statistics - Points per Game, Penalties in Minutes per Game, Hits per Game and Blocks per Game - there was strong evidence to suggest that Motte is a strong replacement for Archibald at the 4th line Right Wing position. Via linear ridge regression, with consideration of the cubic regression, the data suggests that Motte will surpass/outpus a similar points production to that of Archibald, while also significantly outperforming Archibald in Penalty Avoidance & Blocks; however, Archibald was projected to surpass Motte in Hits per 60 for the upcoming season to varying degrees. Additionally, in comparing forwards based on the 2022 statistics - Points per Game, Hits per Game, Blocks per Game & Penalties per Game - via VORP (Value Over Replacement Player) for all players older than 21 with a Cap Hit of less than 1,000,000, UFA signing status and at least 1 game played, it was determined that Tyler Motte is a very strong 4th Line Player compared to players with similar roles. Tyler Motte ranked 6th in VORP at 0.4335 from the 104 players in the dataset; Josh Archibald ranked 9th at 0.3225.

## Conclusions
In concluding, based on the above analysis, I believe Motte is an improvement over Archibald, as shown in the projections for Blocks, Pts & PIM's per 60. Additionally, when compared with players of similar 4th line roles, Motte was generally determined to be a strong 4th Line Right Winger. These projections could benefit from utilizing training data with similar 4th line-type players in the league, and training a more in-depth model when projecting statistics; additionally machine learning algorithms such as Random Forest or Recursive Feature Elimination could be applied to the VORP model to potentially improve the statistics used in the evaluations.
